(upbeat music)
All right, so one weird thing about this order is
if I add something to my order,
go to a different page and come back, it's gone.
And that's because the state that we are saving this in
exists in our order page.
And when you navigate away from a page and then back to it
Gatsby will actually unmount and remount it,
and then thus, any state is lost.
So if you want...
and this is a pretty common thing to do in Gatsby is
if you wanna maintain some sort of state
across page changes,
then you need to put that state at a...
at the very highest level in Gatsby,
so that it doesn't unmount and remount it.
So let's take a look at our Gatsby browser,
dot js.
Remember we have here, we have a wrap page element,
and we wrap it in a layout.
There's another hook called wrap root element.
And that will allow us to wrap the actual Gatsby root.
And if we take a look at our React dev tools here,
and you go all the way up,
you see that we've got this root, right here.
And you see, when I change pages,
that root stays there.
That's the only element on the page
that actually stays there,
and the rest of the elements on the page
unmount and remount,
every single time that you move from page to page.
So that all to say,
if you want some data to stay from page to page,
you have to stick it, or you have to wrap the root element,
and that allows us to persist that data.
And then we also need to talk about like,
how do we do that?
Well...
Because if we take a look at our...
where's our order.js?
And we have this usePizza.
There we go.
We are sticking the state in this hook at an order level,
and we need to stick that at a root level.
So what we'll do is
we will stick all of that data into context.
And context allows us to store data and functionality
at a high level,
and then access it at a much lower level
without having to pass that data down via props.
So let's get rocking.
We're gonna make a new file called OrderContext.js.
So we'll go into our components folder,
make a new file.
We'll call that order...
Capital O, OrderContext.js.
And we need to do a couple things inside here.
Import React and use state from react.
Then we need to create a OrderContext.
So we say const OrderContext
it's equal to, React.createContext.
Then we need to make what's called a provider.
And a provider is just a component
that will live at a higher level,
and then we inject that around our route.
So we say const OrderProvider is equal to function...
I don't know why I'm doing it this way, actually,
let's do it this way.
Function, OrderProvider...
I've done it that way the entire course,
so why change now?
And that will destructure some children.
And from this, we need to stick state in here, right?
Because we've been sticking state in our lower level hook.
What we'll do is we'll stick the state in our provider
and access that state from our actual hook.
So we'll say const square brackets order and set order
is equal to useState, and we'll empty...
Look, let's open up our use pizza hook, just to see
like, look, we're just doing this again,
but what we're gonna do is we're gonna move this state
from here up into our OrderContext.
And let's do something silly and set the default
to use state poop emoji.
And we'll see how we can actually access that
at a lower level before we get into it.
Finally, what we do is
we return OrderContext.Provider.
So this is, a tag.
And then inside of that, we just do children.
And then finally we export default OrderContext,
and export the...
Actually, we can just stick,
export in front of that.
Okay, so now I want you to go into your...
back to your Gatsby browser,
and we'll export function called wrapRootElement.
And that will, destructure one argument called element,
and then from that we return
our new OrderProvider component.
And inside of that is the actual element.
So we'll try to import that, there we go.
So import OrderProvider from
that OrderContext file we just created,
and then wrap the root element with this OrderProvider.
Now I believe...
Here we go.
If we look at our React dev tools,
you see here's our root element,
and we now have wrapped that root element
in our OrderProvider.
And now, when you take a look.
Look at this, there's our root element,
and there is our OrderProvider.
If you open it up, you see there is...
there's some state in there,
I guess that is from Gatsby queries.
That's cool, that has nothing to do with what we want.
Oh this, it's cause I was on the wrong one.
There we go.
OrderProvider, there we go.
There's our state and there's the poop.
So that data is very nice and high.
Now the question is,
is if we go into our usePizza,
how do we access that state...
Like, I don't know, a hundred components deeper.
So let's go into our usePizza hook.
And we'll just say const curly bracket.
We'll say...
Actually we'll just say const silly is equal to
what's it, useContext,
and we have to pass it our OrderContext.
So a couple of things we need to import OrderContext
from our OrderContext.
And we also need to import use context.
That comes...
That's part of React.
We import it straight from React.
Now watch this, console.log silly.
And we go to our console, go to your order page,
and undefined.
Okay, that's not what we wanted (laughs).
That didn't work, let's see...
We our OrderContext.
Yeah, useState.
So we have export default OrderContext, that's here.
OrderContext.Provider...
go to our pizza here,
import the OrderContext, good.
And it is undefined.
One thing...
other thing we have to do is
we also need to put this Gatsby browser, wrapRootElement
that also needs to go into gatsby-ssr
because it needs to happen in both of them.
So you just go ahead and copy that function,
and paste it into here.
I don't believe that's our issue,
but let's do that now just to rule that out.
You know, refresh.
We got another...
another error here.
Let's clean this up,
so we just can get to the root of this.
Each child should have a unique key prop in order page.
So let's go to order JS, look for (indistinct).
There we go.
This button here, doesn't have a key.
We'll give it a size of...
Okay, those two things have been fixed,
but that's not our issue.
We wanna know why we can't access the OrderContext.
Oh, I think I know.
If we go back to our OrderContext.
Oh, I see what the issue is.
Here, we created our state,
but we forgot to actually surface that state.
We can see it in our React dev tools,
but it's not actually being surfaced
unless you explicitly go to your provider
where you are using it.
And we say value is equal to curly brackets, array,
and then we'll pass down our order
and our set order function.
And hey, there we go.
Okay, so that was our issue there, is that,
we create the state inside of this provider function,
but then if you want to surface it at a higher level,
you must pass the value prop to your provider.
And this might be a little bit confusing
cause you have two providers,
but what we're doing is,
we're just making our own custom little provider here,
so that we can tuck away the complexity of state,
as well as passing values.
And we can simply just wrap the root
in our own OrderProvider.
Okay, so that's what we want,
but we don't actually want an emoji poop.
We want just to start with an empty array of pizzas.
And now we can go back to our usePizza hook,
and we'll comment out this line right here,
where we have useState.
We'll put a comment over that.
We got rid of this line because,
we moved useState up to the provider.
And then down here,
now we access both our state and our updater function,
which is setOrder via context.
So now we can go here, and just say
const, square bracket, order and setOrder
is equal to useContext,
and get rid of that silly there.
Boom.
So now you see what we did is we basically just swapped out
the array of items as well as the updater.
And we took it from living inside of the custom hook
to living inside of our provider,
and then we just grab it by using useContext.
And now, what should happen here,
is now when I add items to my order,
and I go to another page and come back,
the pizzas are still there
because the data lives inside of our provider.
Again, we can go to our components folder here,
we go to OrderProvider.
Look, there is the data about our state.
If you go to another page,
that component does not unmount,
and that data still lives there.
One more thing is that the data will be gone
when you refresh the page.
You could stick that in local storage
and then when it mounts, you can pull it back in.
But I think that at this point,
that's good enough to have it,
just cause your user is just going from page to page,
and adding items to their order.
You wanna go back to the pizza,
take a look at one of the pizzas,
and go back to your order.
Everything is still there.
Cool, let's clean this up real quick.
I think I saw...
some errors in our console, here we go.
Where was that coming from?
If I go to order head,
and I add an item, there we go.
Encountered two children with the same key.
Keys should be unique,
So that components maintain their identity across updates.
Non-unique keys will cause children to be duplicated
or admitted The behaviors unsupported.
It could change in a future version.
Oh, okay...
So it's telling us the error's at PizzaOrder js, line 81.
That's our PizzaOrder.
Okay, so we need to open up our PizzaOrder.
One little trick in React is if you hold down option,
or this is vs code, and click it,
it'll open up that component.
And here we go, we're mapping over each of the orders
and using the ID of the pizza as the key.
But if you put the same pizza in your cart twice,
then the keys are gonna be the same.
So what we need to do is make this a unique key.
And what I like to do for that is to,
first, just put the original ID back in,
and then some sort of other unique identifier
that is tacked onto it.
And in this case we don't have another ID,
but we do have the index of that item.
And then in this case, even though the ID will be the same,
the index will be different.
So I believe, now if we add the same item two times,
yeah, that ever goes away.
Cool, all right, that's enough for this video,
I'll catch you in the next one.